Chapter 1
[ 5 ]
At the same time, RDDs expose some coarse-grained transformations (such as
map(...), reduce(...), and filter(...) which we will cover in greater detail in
Chapter 2, Resilient Distributed Datasets), keeping the flexibility and extensibility of
the Hadoop platform to perform a wide variety of calculations. RDDs apply and log
transformations to the data in parallel, resulting in both increased speed and fault-
tolerance. By registering the transformations, RDDs provide data lineage - a form
of an ancestry tree for each intermediate step in the form of a graph. This, in effect,
guards the RDDs against data loss - if a partition of an RDD is lost it still has enough
information to recreate that partition instead of simply depending on replication.
If you want to learn more about data lineage check this link
http://ibm.co/2ao9B1t.
RDDs have two sets of parallel operations: transformations (which return pointers
to new RDDs) and actions (which return values to the driver after running a
computation); we will cover these in greater detail in later chapters.
For the latest list of transformations and actions, please refer to
the Spark Programming Guide at http://spark.apache.org/
docs/latest/programming-guide.html#rdd-operations.
RDD transformation operations are lazy in a sense that they do not compute their
results immediately. The transformations are only computed when an action is
executed and the results need to be returned to the driver. This delayed execution
results in more fine-tuned queries: Queries that are optimized for performance.
This optimization starts with Apache Spark's DAGScheduler – the stage oriented
scheduler that transforms using stages as seen in the preceding screenshot. By
having separate RDD transformations and actions, the DAGScheduler can perform
optimizations in the query including being able to avoid shuffling, the data (the most
resource intensive task).
For more information on the DAGScheduler and optimizations (specifically
around narrow or wide dependencies), a great reference is the Narrow vs. Wide
Transformations section in High Performance Spark in Chapter 5, Effective Transformations
(https://smile.amazon.com/High-Performance-Spark-Practices-
Optimizing/dp/1491943203).